[DEX] rules docs (#20256)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/rules.mdx

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Rules
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

DEX rules allow you to create and manage testing policies for targeted user groups within your [fleet](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/tests/). After creating a rule, you can use it to define the scope of a [test](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/tests/) to specific groups such as departments (like finance or sales), devices, and/or users. You can apply and reuse rules on your desired tests.

> DEX rules are ideal for admin who want to define the scope of a test to a specific group within their fleet to allow for more precise problem detection and resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DEX rules are ideal for admins who want to define the scope of a test to a specific group within their fleet to allow for more precise problem detection and resolution.
```

## Create a rule

To create a rule:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **DEX** > **Rules**.
2. Select **Add a rule**.
3. Give your rule a name and build your desired expressions.
4. Select **Create rule** to finalize your rule.

### Selectors

> Selectors are required categories in a DEX rule expression that define a group within a fleet. The selector(s) you have defined in a rule will determine which group a test will impact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selectors are required categories in a DEX rule expression that define a group within a fleet. The selector(s) you have defined in a rule determines which group is impacted by a test.
```

| **Operating system version** | For specifying an operating system version (use Operator `in`) or versions (use Operator `is`).                                   |
| **Managed network**          | For specifying users accessing the network from the office (managed network) compared to those accessing remotely.                |
| **SAML attributes**          | For specifying a value from the [SAML Attribute Assertion](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/identity-selectors/#saml-attributes). |
| **Colos**                    | For specifying a Cloudflare data center location users are connected to.                                                          |

## Add a rule to a test

After you have created a rule, you can add it to a test. If you do not add a rule to a test, the test will run on your entire device fleet.

To add a rule to a test:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **DEX** > **Tests**.
2. Choose an existing test and select **Edit**, or select **Add a test** to make a new test.
3. Under **Select DEX rules**, select the rule you would like to apply.
4. Select **Save test** for an existing rule or **Add rule** for the new test.

:::note

> Existing tests may take 24 hours to apply or remove a new rule.

Author: ```suggestion
When applying or removing rules from an existing test, your change can take up to 24 hours to propagate.
```
